The next topic we're going to discuss is
nullish values and the three specific
kinds of values that I'm talking
about are null, undefined and void.
So we're gonna talk about each of those
three when I advise you use each of them.
And then we're going to discuss
the non-null assertion operator where
you cast away any possibility of
something being undefined or null.
And then the definite assignment operator
which can be used in some interesting
edge cases around class initialization,
or instance initialization, so null.
Null indicates that there is a value for
something and that value is nothing.
I wanna be clear that different people
have different opinions about this,
when to use null, when to use undefined.
But this has served me well,
so for example,
if I receive a null return value from a
function or I find null on a class field,
I take that to mean it's almost a 404,
right?
Like a not found, nothing's there or
nothing's there yet,
well really just nothing's there, like
something's arrived and that is nothing.
Undefined, I take this to mean
that either we haven't gotten
to providing something or we're not ever
going to provide you with something.
So here's an example of a form,
maybe we're like monitoring how long it
takes for a user to complete this form.
And completedAt is
a property that is undefined
because they haven't completed it yet.
And when they complete it, we will get
a value so I prefer to use undefined for
cases like this.
Void as we said before, this should be
used explicitly for function returns and
it means that the return value of
the function should be ignored.
If you wanna learn or refresh
yourself more about how to use void,
you can look at the functions
chapter where we show the impact
of using void versus an undefined
return type on callback types.
So that's null, undefined and void, so
now let's talk about these two operators.
First, there's a non-null
assertion operator and
you may think of this as kind
of similar to optional chaining,
if you've ever used that,
this sort of dot, I think it's click.
Yeah, it's like dot question mark,
something like that,
I don't use it very much, to be honest.
But that sort of allows you to
reach deeply into an object and
if at any point in accessing a chain
of property something is found
to be undefined,
it will sort of just give up,
just evaluate out to undefined and
just sort of skip it.
Non-null assertion operator
is sort of the last or
the less forgiving variant of this.
Here's an example, so let's say we have a
grocery cart which can contain fruits and
vegetables.
We initialize it without either and we try
to kind of reach into this and say like,
okay, I hope fruits is there because
I want to treat it like an array and
push stuff into it, but
this array might not be there.
In fact, it's not there, because we
initialize this to an empty object.
We're correctly being busted, on trying
to use something that might not be there.
Well, if we use this
non-null assertion operator,
this exclamation mark right here,
we're telling TypeScript to disregard.
Got Glenn Marth,
I think I actually might have a typo,
I do have a typo, this is the typo.
That's a good catch, so it should not
be dot bang, it should be bang dot.
[LAUGH] Yep, very good catch, thankfully,
my code example works because it's
actually running TypeScript behind
the scenes and it compiled.
So this is working in front of our eyes,
but I'll make that correction, thank you.
So we can see that the possibility
of fruits being undefined has sort
of been thrown out, we're just
saying please disregard TypeScript.
I know what I'm doing,
I'm the software engineer here,
just do what I tell you to do.
And as a result,
we can kind of proceed through,
I use this a lot, but
never in app or library code.
I use it like crazy in test suites
because I prefer test frameworks and
assertion libraries to be clear that
will regard a throw as a test failure.
So if this is my test case,
where I have nothing,
I don't have a fruits array in my
grocery cart, and this throws.
That's a failed test and
that I'll treat it as a failed test,
it's almost like a little mini assertion I
think this is beautiful in a test suite.
I don't like it in app code because
it's a pretty hard failure to hit and
I would much rather use a type guard and
set and check to see if this is undefined.
And then let's reach into it,
I think that is a more fault tolerant
way of handling this kind of situation.
Because this in almost every
case like this is this
could have a real possibility
of being undefined.
I don't even like the idea.
If we were to do this, I
don't even think that this
is justified because you're
like I slightly inattentive
refactor away from moving this
somewhere else where you might
not have that guarantee.
I prefer to have my guarantees by way
of type cards that will actually do
some runtime thing to evaluate whether
something's there or not there.
Compared to this, which is just saying
force the type system to forget
about the possibility of undefined.
That's a dangerous copy paste away
from creating problems for you.
But great in test suites because
throwing errors in test suites,
when things turn out in an unexpected way.
That's a test failure, that's great,
that will tell you something's wrong,
you can go and fix it.
All right, definite assignment operator,
it's the same exclamation mark
syntax used in a different place and
that place is on class fields.
So here's an example of something,
essentially a slightly
relabeled piece of code that I
have in production right now.
And it's a class that has to do
something asynchronous as part of
its setup procedure.
So constructors can't be async but
they can kick off an async
method as they finish.
And so what I do here is when
the constructor is invoked,
I say I've got this setup promise and
I kick that off.
And I say,
we begin in a non setup state and
I'm going to, Chain in
the promise returned by this method here,
right?
So that means that this setup promise will
only resolve once this thing is done.
And then when everything's done,
I'll flip that, his set up flag and
say, okay, we're now ready to go.
So I'm getting an error here and
I'm seeing that this property has
no initializer which is true.
And it is not definitely
assigned in the constructor,
what does definitely assigned mean?
It means that TypeScript wanted to see,
it wanted to see something like this,
which I guess I could have done.
It has no idea if or
when this is going to be invoked.
And so it's not willing to,
doesn't wanna give me a guarantee
that this property,
this class field will get its value.
Now if something's
directly in a constructor,
TypeScript can understand that.
It can analyze it and it can say, if we
instantiate this thing and then we say,
here's a thing with async setup.
Well, by the time I give it to you, it
will have a Boolean value there because I
saw you set one on the constructor but
down here, it's not so sure.
Now, in this situation, I know
something that TypeScript doesn't and
that is that the callback you
pass into a promise constructor,
it is invoked synchronously.
Which means that by the time we
actually get that new promise,
this thing that I've selected,
that little callback,
it's already been invoked and
it's already finished.
And I will definitely have my
Boolean value there but TypeScript,
It doesn't have a way of saying,
well, this is a synchronous callback.
And this is an async callback and
I know about the runtime behavior here.
It just has no way of describing that but
in this case, this code,
it's actually okay.
So, We could add something here,
I'll just have to show you in the example.
All we'd have to do is
add the exclamation mark.
This right here, the definite
assignment operator, it's saying, look,
I will assume responsibility for
making sure this thing gets its value.
A great place to use this is
component lifecycle hooks.
So no matter what component library or
framework you use,
there's often like there's
the constructor logic.
And then there's some initialization
process that happens later,
maybe it's when the component's
initially rendered or
when it's about to render and maybe you
take care of setting some stuff up there.
So realistically, you're not doing much
with this thing, Until it's set up,
and maybe it's rendered.
So you might say, I know yes,
after your constructor runs,
this thing is not gonna be there.
But realistically, for all things I care
about, we can act as if it'll be there,
so that's the kind of time
where you might wanna use this.